her eyes and ears that were closed for
the first two weeks of her life are now
opening and with this comes a whole new
world of sensory stimulation
she uses her vision to move around but
does she see the world the same way we
do well dogs are colorblind but that
doesn't mean that everything is black
and white she does see color but mostly
just blues and yellows it's because she
only has two types of color receptors
compared to humans who have three and
it's also why your dog will often ignore
an orange toy in the green grass as
those colors look the same to them
better to give them something blue
but it's when things are moving that her
vision comes into its own dog's eyes
process what they see more quickly than
we do it's almost like they see in slow
motion
that's why they're always in the right
place to catch the frisbee
adults hearing is also superhuman they
can hear things four times further away
and twice as high-pitched as we can it's
why we can't hear dog whistles but it
also means they can hear the hum of
lights and even the pulsing sound of a
quartz crystal in a digital clock but
there's one sense she'll use more than
any other her sense of smell a dog's
brain is one-tenth the size of ours but
the part that controls smell is 40 times
larger they have up to 300 million scent
glands in their nose
compared to our five million
you